Welcome back!
So, one of the first things we're going to need, when programming, is access to some sort of
console or log or some sort of feedback about our program working,
in the most simple possible way. So, in this video we're going to be talking about runtime messages
for feedback. So, we're using
UE_LOG, a macro, to print to the Output Console. Now, I'm going
to be using the word Macro and Unreal Header
Tool Directive, pretty interchangeably in this course. There are two
types of things we're going to see in our code, that start all capital and that are all capitals,
and they're either going to be macros, which are something that the
compiler, Visual Studio runs, just before compilation in order to actually
insert or change code, or there's something that the Unreal Header Tool
is using to do a very similar thing. The point it, they both happen just
before the compilation happens, and we don't really have a
lot of say or choice in exactly what happens, apart
from just writing the macro, it's kind of a black box. So, I'm just going to use the word macro in general,
so excuse me if you find that sloppy, but basically, they do the same thing and we'll see
how that pans out later on! So, we're going to be printing to the game screen as
well. And for information, you want to start reading this. So, let's just take a look at that,
it's on your slides. It's a document here from Unreal,
that gives you some ideas. So, let's start at the top! Quick Usage, UE_LOG like that!
Let's just copy that code! This is something you may typically do! Go over to
the Editor, and the, we're going to go to our smart chair and our Position
Report method over here. Now, how are you going to get to this class, by the
way? You can't double-click it to edit it. You can't even right-click it to
edit it, but you can right-click it and say Find Class in Content
Browser. That will take you to Position Report script there, at which point you can double-click it
and it will open Visual Studio. Of course, another way is to browse through Games,
BuildingEscape, Source, and then down here. Cool! So,
this is implementation, so I'm going to order things Header then Implementation. And what I'm going to do
here is, I'm simply at BeginPlay() in the implementation
of BeginPlay() here, I'm going to say
Paste. And instead of saying ("Your message") I'm going to say
("Position report
reporting for duty")
exclamation mark, and I may put a backslash n on the end or I may not.
Let's do it without. So, let's have a quick look at how this guy works then!
So, it's a macro! Just call it a macro, it's the general term! OK, regardless
of whether it's actually a compiler macro or an Unreal Header Tool.
LogTemp is the log it's going to. We can organize log categories later.
Warning is going to make it come out in a particular color. You can see that over here,
it'll talk about colors. Gray if
you call things a log, yellow if you call things a warning, and red
if you call things an error, so expect ours to come out in yellow.
Then, you say comma TEXT, another macro, which takes in a string.
OK, so let's just try it! We'd expect this to happen
on the construction of this position report. You can
either put it there, or let's put it for simplicity, actually down here in
BeginPlay(). It doesn't make a lot of odds which way you put it, but for simplicity,
let's just put it down here in BeginPlay(), because it's obvious what's happening here, when the game
begins to play it's going to print something. Let's try it! Now,
you do need to save your Visual Studio file, and you can either build by right-clicking here
in build, which we'll do this time, or you'll find that as long as you've saved your file,
you could also come over to Unreal and click Compile. So, we want
to make sure that that does actually compile. Look here, it's running the Unreal Header Tool,
something it does along here OK. And that's doing some
magical work for us, all very powerful and cool, but a little confusing
in the early days. And then, in a minute it says the builder succeeded, so we can
go to Unreal and we can click play. And of course, we're going to need access to
the Window, Developer Tools, and then, Output Log. "Position report
reporting for duty!" Fantastic! We have, in our log
temp category, a warning saying that so we can see it! Great!
You could go ahead in to the code and change all sorts of things
about it, if you want to. You could change it to a different type, an error, or just a log.
I suggest a warning on error for now, because they're going to show up amongst all these other gray
entries, quite nicely. Later, we'll start using these as, you know,
categorized properly if you like. So, the Position report is reporting
for duty. That is great news! What I want you to do
is to make this... Well, I'll do this first bit, then I'll
give you a challenge. It's going to be a little tiny bit easier for you. So,
("Position report reporting for duty!") I'm going to say
on Chair!")) In this case, I'm going to hard
code that it's on the chair, OK. I'm going to save, so there's no
star up here. I'm going to go back to Unreal and compile from inside Unreal.
It does the same thing, it calls upon your IDE,
Visual Studio, Xcode, etc. to compile the code.
When that's finished, which can
take a little while, something we'll have to get used to with Unreal. There are things we can do, by the way, to improve
the compilation speed later, inlining and various other things.
Now, if we play, it's going to say "on Chair". OK, pretty simple! So, I have a challenge for you!
I would just like to show you one quick thing, before we dive into it. Click on Details, make sure you
have the chair selected. Click on Details, and I want you to
see here, on the top-left of Details, when you Add Component you can actually
search for components, and you can find, in this list, if you look
through under Custom our Position Report. OK, so you're going to need that for the challenge, otherwise
I think you can do it, so here it is. So, I want you to add the component to a second
object in your scene. Add on your component to a second game object, of the same
type of a static mesh actor type. If it works, you'll get a
second log and we'll see next how to read the actual object named,
to customize that log entry. So, go ahead, pause the video, and just see if you can
get a second log entry appearing now!
OK welcome back! Let's take a look at this!
Go to Add Component, scroll down to
Position Report, and when you click it, you'll get Position Report added like
this. Now, when we play, we get two reports. Now, they're
both saying "on Chair!" at the moment, which is a problem, and we will see in the next video
how we can actually access the name of the object that's making this log entry,
so that we can be sure what's coming from where and make some progress
into reading from Unreal's class system. So, well done getting this far, and I
will see you soon!